# ROFI 1 rofi

## NAME

**rofi** - A window switcher,  application launcher, ssh dialog and dmenu replacement

## SYNOPSIS

**rofi** [ -show *mode* ]|[ -dmenu ]|[ -e *msg* ] [ CONFIGURATION ]


## DESCRIPTION

**rofi** is an X11 pop-up window switcher, run dialog, dmenu replacement, and more. It focuses on
being fast to use and have minimal distraction. It supports keyboard and mouse navigation, type to
filter, tokenized search and more.


## USAGE

**rofi**'s main functionality is to assist in your workflow, allowing you to quickly switch
between windows, start applications or log into a remote machine via ssh. There are different *modi* for different types of
actions.

**rofi** can also function as (drop-in) replacement for **dmenu(1)**.

### Running rofi

To launch **rofi** directly in a certain mode, specify a mode with `rofi -show <mode>`.
To show the run dialog:

    rofi -show run

### Emulating dmenu

**rofi** can emulate **dmenu(1)** (a dynamic menu for X) when launched with the `-dmenu` flag.

The website for `dmenu` can be found [here](http://tools.suckless.org/dmenu/).

**rofi** does not aim to be 100% compatible with dmenu. There are simply too many different flavors of dmenu.
The idea is that the basic usage command-line flags are obeyed, theme-related flags are not.
Besides, **rofi** offers some extended features (like multi-select, highlighting, message bar, extra key bindings).

### Display Error message

**rofi** error dialog can also be called from the command line.

    rofi -e "my message"

Markup support can be enabled, see CONFIGURATION options.

## CONFIGURATION

There are currently three methods of setting configuration options (evaluated in order below):

 * System configuration file (for example `/etc/rofi.conf`).
 * Xresources: A method of storing key values in the Xserver. See
   [here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X_resources) for more information.
 * Rasi theme file: The new *theme* format can be used to set configuration values.
 * Configuration File: This uses the same format as the Xresources file.
   By default it looks in `XDG_USER_CONFIG_DIR`/rofi/config, but can be overridden on commandline.
   By default XDG_USER_CONFIG_DIR defaults to `$HOME/.config`. (See `rofi -h` for current location).
   This is the recommended way of configuring **rofi**.
 * Command-line options: Arguments passed to **rofi**.

**TIP**: To get a template config file run: `rofi -dump-xresources > rofi-example.config`.
**NOTE**: In version 1.4.0 we support configuration in a new format, a config for this can be generated by: `rofi
-dump-config > config.rasi`
**NOTE**: If you want to use the new configuration format, the config file should be named `config.rasi`.

The Xresources file expects options starting with `rofi.` followed by its name. An example to set the number of lines:

    rofi.lines: 10

Command line options override settings from Xresources file. The same option set as argument — prefixed with a '-':

    rofi -lines 10

To get a list of available options formatted as Xresources entries, run:

    rofi -dump-xresources

The configuration system supports the following types:

 * string
 * integer (signed and unsigned)
 * char
 * Boolean

Boolean options have a non-default command-line syntax. Example to enable option X:

    -X

To disable option X:

    -no-X

Below is a list of the most important options:

### General

`-help`

The help option shows the full list of commandline options and the current set value.
These include dynamic (run-time generated) options.

`-dump-xresources`

Dump the current active configuration in Xresources format to the command-line.
This does not validate all passed values (for example, colors).

`-threads` *num*

Specify the number of threads **rofi** should use:

  * 0: Autodetect the number of supported hardware threads.
  * 1: Disable threading
  * 2..N: Specify the maximum number of threads to use in the thread pool.

`-dmenu`

Run **rofi** in dmenu mode. This allows for interactive scripts.
In `dmenu` mode, **rofi** reads from STDIN, and output to STDOUT.
A simple example, displaying three pre-defined options:

    echo -e "Option #1\nOption #2\nOption #3" | rofi -dmenu

Or get the options from a script:

    ~/my_script.sh | rofi -dmenu

`-show` *mode*

Open **rofi** in a certain mode. Available modes are `window`, `run`, `drun`, `ssh`, `combi`.
The special argument `keys` can be used to open a searchable list of supported key bindings
(see *KEY BINDINGS*)

To show the run-dialog:

    rofi -show run

`-modi` *mode1,mode1*

Specify an ordered, comma-separated list of modes to enable.
Enabled modes can be changed at runtime. Default key is Ctrl+Tab.
If no modes are specified, all modes will be enabled.
To only show the run and ssh launcher:

    rofi -modi "run,ssh" -show run

Custom modes can be added using the internal 'script' mode. Each mode has two parameters:

    <name>:<script>

Example: Have a mode 'Workspaces' using the `i3_switch_workspaces.sh` script:

    rofi -modi "window,run,ssh,Workspaces:i3_switch_workspaces.sh" -show Workspaces

Notes: The I3 Window manager does not like commas in the command when specifying an exec command.
For that case '#' can be used as an separator.

`-case-sensitive`

Start in case sensitive mode.
This option can be changed at run-time using the `-kb-toggle-case-sensitivity` key binding.

`-cycle`

Cycle through the result list. Default is 'true'.

`-filter` *filter*

Filter the list by setting text in input bar to *filter*

`-config` *filename*

Load an alternative configuration file.

`-cache-dir` *filename*

Directory that is used to place temporary files, like history.


`-scroll-method` *method*

Select the scrolling method. 0: Per page, 1: continuous.

`-[no-]show-match`

Show the indicator that shows what part of the string is matched.

    Default: *true*

`-no-lazy-grab`

Disables lazy grab, this forces the keyboard being grabbed before gui is shown.

`-no-plugins`

Disable plugin loading.

`-plugin-path` *directory*

Specify the directory where **rofi** should look for plugins.

`-show-icons`

Show application icons in drun and window modes.

`-icon-theme`

Specify icon theme to be used.
If not specified default theme from DE is used, *Adwaita* and *gnome* themes act as
fallback themes.

### Matching

`-matching` *method*

Specify the matching algorithm used.
Current the following methods are supported.

* **normal**: match the int string
* **regex**: match a regex input
* **glob**: match a glob pattern
* **fuzzy**: do a fuzzy match

   Default: *normal*

Note: glob matching might be slow for larger lists

`-tokenize`

Tokenize the input.

`-drun-match-fields` *field1*,*field2*,...

When using drun, match only with the specified Desktop entry fields.
The different fields are:

* **name**: the application's name
* **generic**: the application's generic name
* **exec**: the application's  executable
* **categories**: the application's categories
* **comment**: the application comment
* **all**: all of the above

    Default: *name,generic,exec,categories*

`-drun-display-format`

The format string for the drun dialog:

* **name**: the application's name
* **generic**: the application's generic name
* **exec**: the application's  executable
* **categories**: the application's categories
* **comment**: the application comment

Pango markup can be used to formatting the output.

    Default: {name} [<span weight='light' size='small'><i>({generic})</i></span>]

Note: Only fields enabled in `-drun-match-fields` can be used in the format string.

`-[no-]drun-show-actions`

Show actions present in the Desktop files.

    Default: false

`-window-match-fields` *field1*,*field2*,...

When using window mode, match only with the specified fields.
The different fields are:

* **title**: window's title
* **class**: window's class
* **role**: window's role
* **name**: window's name
* **desktop**: window's current desktop
* **all**: all of the above

    Default: *all*


### Layout

Most of the following options are **deprecated** and should not be used. Please use the new theme format to customize
**rofi**. More information about the new format can be found in the **rofi-theme(5)** manpage.

`-lines`

Maximum number of lines to show before scrolling.

    rofi -lines 25

Default: *15*

`-columns`

Number of columns to show before scrolling.

    rofi -columns 2

Default: *1*

`-width` [value]

Set width of menu. `[value]` is specified in percentage.

    rofi -width 60

If `[value]` is larger then 100, size is set in pixels. Example to span a full-HD monitor:

    rofi -width 1920

If `[value]` is negative, it tries to estimates a character width. To show 30 characters in a row:

    rofi -width -30

Character width is a rough estimate, and might not be correct, but should work for most monospaced fonts.

Default: *50*

`-location`

Specify where the window should be located. The numbers map to the following locations on screen:

      1 2 3
      8 0 4
      7 6 5

Default: *0*

`-fixed-num-lines`

Keep a fixed number of visible lines (See the `-lines` option.)

`-padding`

Define the inner margin of the window.

Default: *5*

`-fullscreen`

Use the full-screen height and width.

`-sidebar-mode`

Open in sidebar-mode. In this mode a list of all enabled modes is shown at the bottom.
(See `-modi` option)
To show sidebar, use:

    rofi -show run -sidebar-mode -lines 0

`-auto-select`

When one entry is left, automatically select it.

`-m` *num*

`-m` *name*

`-monitor` *num*

`-monitor` *name*

Select monitor to display **rofi** on.
It accepts as input: *primary* (if primary output is set), the *xrandr* output name, or integer number (in order of
detection). Negative numbers are handled differently:

 *  **-1**: the currently focused monitor.
 *  **-2**: the currently focused window (that is, **rofi** will be displayed on top of the focused window).
 *  **-3**: Position at mouse (overrides the location setting to get normal context menu
    behavior.)
 *  **-4**: the monitor with the focused window.
 *  **-5**: the monitor that shows the mouse pointer.

    Default: *-5*

See `rofi -h` output for the detected monitors, their position, and size.


`-theme` *filename*

Path to the new theme file format. This overrides the old theme settings.

`-theme-str` *string*

Allow theme parts to be specified on the command line as an override.

For example:

    rofi -theme-str '#window { fullscreen: true; }'

This option can be specified multiple times.

`-dpi`  *number*

Override the default DPI setting.
If set to `0`, it tries to auto-detect based on X11 screen size (similar to i3 and GTK).
If set to `1`, it tries to auto-detect based on the size of the monitor that rofi is displayed on (similar to latest Qt 5).

### PATTERN setting

`-terminal`

Specify which terminal to start.

    rofi -terminal xterm

Pattern: *{terminal}*
Default: *x-terminal-emulator*

`-ssh-client` *client*

Override the used ssh client.

Pattern: *{ssh-client}*
Default: *ssh*

### SSH settings

`-ssh-command` *cmd*

Set the command to execute when starting a ssh session.
The pattern *{host}* is replaced by the selected ssh entry.

Pattern: *{ssh-client}*
Default: *{terminal} -e {ssh-client} {host}*

`-parse-hosts`

Parse the `/etc/hosts` file for entries.

Default: *disabled*

`-parse-known-hosts`
`-no-parse-known-hosts`

Parse the `~/.ssh/known_hosts` file for entries.

Default: *enabled*

### Run settings

`-run-command` *cmd*

Set command (*{cmd}*) to 
